Week 1 History of Physical Therapy profession
Clinical Settings
Dreeben-Irimia’s Chap
2&3

---------------------

Week 2 Research practices Dreeben-Irimia’s Chap
11
PowerPoint

---------------------

Week 3 APTA/ Professionalism Dreeben-Irimia’s Chap
6
PowerPoint

---------------------

Week 4 APTA Core Values and Guide for Conduct for
PTA
LIVING with a DISABILITY ASSIGNMENT
(09-28-25)
Dreeben-Irimia’s
Appendix F

---------------------

Week 5 Roles of Multidisciplinary team in Clinical
Settings
Dreeben-Irimia’s Chap
4&6

---------------------

Week 6 ICF Model/ Elements of Patient Management
Dreeben-Irimia’s Chap
3

---------------------

Week 7 Therapeutic Alliance
PowerPoint
Personal, Professional, and Societal Values

---------------------

Week 8 Communication between the PTA and
Patient, PTA and caregiver, and
communication etiquette with patients
Dreeben-Irimia’s Chap
8&9

---------------------

Week 10 Living with disability and its effects on the
patient and family caregiver
RESEARCH ASSIGNMENT (11-02-25)
TBA

---------------------

Week 11 Environmental and architectural barrier
O’Sullivan Chap 9

---------------------

Week 12 Federal and state laws pertaining to disability
Dreeben-Irimia’s Chap
7

---------------------

Week 13 Medical record/Medical terminology Dreeben-Irimia’s Chap
10

---------------------

Week 14 SOAP documentation
SOAP NOTE ASSIGNMENT (12-07-25)
Dreeben-Irimia’s Chap
10

---------------------

Week 15 Reimbursements ICD 10 and CPT codes
Dreeben-Irimia’s Chap
11
FINAL EXAM FINAL EXAM
Class Policies
UNSATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE:
Please refer to the student handbook for policy regarding unsatisfactory performance in
the written examination.
LATE SUBMISSION:
Please follow the late submission guidelines present in canvas under each assignment
page. An assignment submitted in the last submission window for each assignment will
receive a maximum grade of 75 if the grade on the scoring rubric is above 75. If the
score obtained on the rubric is below 75, that grade will be retained. ANY ASSIGNMENT
SUBMITTED OUTSIDE THE LATE SUBMISSION WINDOW WILL AUTOMATICALLY
RECEIVE A GRADE OF ZERO.
EXAMS:
This course has two written exams, and the final written exam is cumulative for this
course.
Attendance Policy:
Students are expected to attend all scheduled classroom experiences to meet the course
objectives. Students are accountable for all information that is presented in class and
outside resources. If an absence is anticipated, the course instructor should be notified in
advance whenever possible. Students who miss a scheduled class are responsible to
obtain notes, handouts, and any other pertinent information provided during that time.
Course faculty will decide if absences are affecting the student’s completion of the
course objectives and will counsel the student accordingly.
Students are expected to take exams on the scheduled dates for the course. In the event
of an emergency necessitating an absence, such illness or death in the family, students
must notify the course instructor as soon as possible. In the event of an absence from an
exam, the student is required to present documentation that verifies the emergency
circumstances. Missed exams will be rescheduled at the convenience of the course
instructor. The makeup exam may vary from the original test. The missed exam will be
scheduled within seven (7) days of the original exam date, or the student will receive an
exam grade of “0”.
Absences are to be reported by leaving a message for the instructor on his/her office
phone, email.
Each student can reschedule one missed exam or practical each semester for a valid
reason with supporting documentation.
Lab clothes and proper hygiene are required for all labs.
Field trips may be scheduled in the early evenings and occasionally on weekends.
Saturday make-up lectures or labs will be avoided if possible.
Professional Behavior
Attendance, participation and behavior are expected to meet the standards of
professional performance and will be evaluated as such; Professional standards include
promptness, cooperation and dedication to learning, presenting oneself appropriately,
oral and written communication, ethical behavior and assuming responsibility for one’s
behavior. The student will also be evaluated on the preparation for class and includes
required supplies and appropriate attire. Professional behavior is graded using the
attached form “Assessment of Professional Behavior”.
Additional Information
Grading: (click on link below)
http://onlinecatalog.ucc.edu/content.php?catoid=10&navoid=2858#grading-grading
Academic Policies:
See College Catalog and Student Handbook for more information on UCNJ- Union
College of Union County, NJ.
Student Code of Conduct: (click on link below)
https://www.ucc.edu/campus-life/student-handbook/
Plagiarism Policies: (click on link below) http://onlinecatalog.ucc.edu/content.php?
catoid=10&navoid=2858#cheating-plagiarism
Experiential Learning
Students must complete an experiential learning activity that connects course content to
career applications. This activity may be a content specific assignment or practical skill
that is applied within a course assignment. This assignment supports the general
education learning outcomes of scientific/critical thinking and quantitative reasoning; oral
and written communication; and information literacy/technological competency.
Academic Policies
See College Catalog for more information: http://onlinecatalog.ucc.edu/index.php
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ offers reasonable accommodations and/or
services to persons with disabilities. Any student who has a documented disability and
wishes to self-identify should contact the Director of Universal Accessibility Services and
Veterans Affairs at (908) 709-7164, or email accessibility@ucc.edu. Accommodations
are individualized and in accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1992. In order to receive accommodations,
students must be registered with Disability Support Services. Students should register
with the office as soon as possible. Accommodations are not official until the Faculty
Accommodations Alert Form(s) are issued from the student to his/her instructor(s).
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
The FERPA Statement can be found at https://www.ucc.edu/admissions/the-family-
education-rights-and-privacy-act/.
Equal Opportunity Statement
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ does not discriminate and prohibits
discrimination, as required by state and/or federal law, in all programs and activities,
including employment and access to its career and technical programs.
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ Mission Statement
Transforming Our Community. . . One Student at a Time
Suggested Teaching Methodologies
The PTA Program instructors use a combination of teaching methods to promote
retention, positive transfer, and critical thinking. Instructors monitor and adjust daily by
eliciting over student involvement. This ensures that critical learning is in place. Lectures
are supplemented by active student participation, small group discussions and by a
variety of audio-visual aids. Students will utilize the library for reference material for
research project to reinforce various topics discussed in lecture. Students have access to
the Academic Learning Center (ALC) and Peer tutoring. Students are actively involved in
hands-on laboratory experiences.
Mapping Course Learning Outcomes to Learning Activities and
Evaluation Methods
Course Learning OutcomesLearning Activities EVALUATION METHODS
Recognize the historical
origin and development of
the PT/PTA profession and
its influence on current
PT/PTA practice.
Lecture, Class
discussions,
Exams
Describe the role of
multidisciplinary healthcare
team across all clinical
settings and its contribution
to current PT/PTA practice.
Lecture, Class discussions,
Assignment
Exams, assignments
Discuss the core values
and the standards of ethical
conduct for PTA’s as
established by the APTA in
relation to current PT
practice.
Lecture, Class discussions,
assignment
Exams, Case study
Understand the framework
of disability in relation to a
health condition according
to the International
Classification of Functional
Disability (ICF) and PT
management model.
Lecture, class discussions Exams
Examine the effects of
living with a disability for a
patient/client and
family/caregiver in today’s
society
Lecture, assignment, class
discussions
Exams, assignment
Examine the effects of
environmental and
architectural barriers for a
patient living with disability
Lecture, assignment, class
discussions
Exams, assignment
Analyze societal attitudes
and its effects on
individuals living with
disabilities.
Lecture, assignment, class
discussions
Assignment, exams
Demonstrate knowledge of
all federal and state laws
pertaining to individuals
living with disabilities
Lecture, assignment, class
discussions
Assignment, exams
Identify the types of
medical records and its
components used in
various health settings.
Lecture, class discussions Assignment, exams
Define the medical terms
used in the medical record
specific to various bodily
systems.
Lecture, class discussions Exams
Explain legal issues
associated with
documentation and the
advantages and
disadvantages associated
with electronic
documentation in current
PT practice
Lecture, class discussions Exams
Compose a SOAP note
using proper medical
terminology for safe and
effective PT
documentation.
Lecture, assignment, Soap notes assignment,
exams
Summarize the concept of
therapeutic alliance
between the clinician and
patient/client in current PT
practice.
Lecture, class discussions Exams, discussion
assignment
Discuss the role of various
therapeutic communication
in physical therapy practice
for safe and effective
patient care.
Lecture, class discussions Exams, discussion
assignment
Discuss the specific ICD-10
and CPT codes used for
PT reimbursement.
Lecture, assignment Exams, assignment
Understand basic research
practices used in PT
profession.
Lecture, assignment, class
discussions
Exams, assignment
Interpret the sections in a
research article and the
levels of evidence to
understand evidence-
based practice.
Lecture, assignment, class
discussions
Exams, assignment
Interpret quantitative and
qualitative research
methods including data
collection to understand
Lecture, assignment, class
discussions
Exams, assignment
how research helps PT to
improve patient care.
Understand the importance
of maintaining
professionalism in class
and how APTA
membership contributes to
lifelong professionalism.
Lecture, assignment, class
discussions
Exams, assignment
Please note: all programs must integrate in one or more courses, discipline-specific
course learning outcomes that reflect the College learning outcomes of scientific/critical
thinking and quantitative reasoning, oral/written communication, and information literacy.
Visit https://app.teachinghow2s.com/library/allied-sciences to access evidence-based-
teaching techniques for this course.

---------------------

