Week 1 Introduction: concepts of course
Rhythm/ Beat/ stress/ accent Intonation (Music of the Language)
Blending/clustering/chunking
Relaxed vs. Formal American Speech/Conversations

---------------------

Week 2 Vowel Sounds (Long/Short)/ Consonant Sounds (blends)
Practice/contrast minimal pairs
Contrast in phrases
Songs/Dictation

---------------------

Week 3 Syllable/Sentence Stress
Unstressed syllables with vowel Sound (Shwah)
Phrasal Blends/Linking in mini dialogues/poems
Dictation

---------------------

Week 4 Rising/Falling Intonation
Questions/Statements
Phrasal blends/Linking in prepared dialogues
Group dialogue

---------------------

Week 5 Sentence Stress/Elisions/Intonation in short dialogues
Group dialogue preparation
Group role playing in class
Dictation/Recording

---------------------

Week 6 Linking/ Phrasing/Chunking/Elisions
Contrast Rapid vs. Formal Speech Dialogues
Two-Word Verbs Idioms in Rapid Speech
Dictation

---------------------

Week 7 Linking/Phrasing Continued
Idiom Vocabulary Practice
Dialogue Practice
Impromptu talk Practice

---------------------

Week 8
Mid – Evaluation
Review vocabulary
Practice short dialogues with proper stress/blending/ intonation
3 – minute Impromptu Talk

---------------------

Week 9 Breath Groups in Longer Sentences and Questions
Practice sentence stress and intonation in longer conversations
Discuss various topics to increase vocabulary and idiomatic
expressions
Prepare questions for a typical interview
Classmates interview each other and volunteers in front of class

---------------------

Week 10 Continue breath group/intonation/stress & vocabulary in specific
situations
Increase vocabulary/expressions/fluency
Listen for blend, clusters, unstressed in songs
Group Role-Playing
Dictation/Recording

---------------------

Week 11 American Speech Reductions
Listen to dialogues on specific situations
Respond to visual or auditory cues/stimuli
Reproduce reduced speech in normal American dialogue

---------------------

Week 12 American Speech Reductions
Discuss formal vs. informal speech situations
Prepare questions for teacher interview in groups
Interview teacher

---------------------

Week 13 Review Practice
Give 3-minute dialogues in class
Discuss dialogues/pronunciation
Review what has been practiced in class: stress/
intonation/elisions/rhythm,etc.

---------------------

Week 14 Final Evaluation
3-minute presentation on a specific topic
Exam week Final exam and student conferences
Class Policies
Throughout the semester students will use standard on-line computer Apps, record
various dialogues, and take dictations. Topics to be determined by students and the level
of the class.
Experiential Learning
Students must complete an experiential learning activity that connects course content to
career applications. This activity may be a content specific assignment or practical skill
that is applied within a course assignment. This assignment supports the general
education learning outcomes of scientific/critical thinking and quantitative reasoning; oral
and written communication; and information literacy/technological competency.
Academic Policies
See College Catalog for more information: http://onlinecatalog.ucc.edu/index.php
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ offers reasonable accommodations and/or
services to persons with disabilities. Any student who has a documented disability and
wishes to self-identify should contact the Director of Universal Accessibility Services and
Veterans Affairs at (908) 709-7164, or email accessibility@ucc.edu. Accommodations
are individualized and in accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1992. In order to receive accommodations,
students must be registered with Disability Support Services. Students should register
with the office as soon as possible. Accommodations are not official until the Faculty
Accommodations Alert Form(s) are issued from the student to his/her instructor(s).
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
The FERPA Statement can be found at https://www.ucc.edu/admissions/the-family-
education-rights-and-privacy-act/.
Equal Opportunity Statement
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ does not discriminate and prohibits
discrimination, as required by state and/or federal law, in all programs and activities,
including employment and access to its career and technical programs.
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ Mission Statement
Transforming Our Community. . . One Student at a Time
Suggested Teaching Methodologies
Students will practice pronunciation in pairs and groups to improve oral communication.
Students will be given opportunities to participate in discussions at every class meeting.
Students will be expected to speak about their lives, experiences, and textbook themes
with developing fluency.
Students will complete recordings of themselves in order to evaluate their progress.
Mapping Course Learning Outcomes to Learning Activities and
Evaluation Methods
Course Learning
Outcomes
(CLO's)
Learning Activities Evaluation Methods
1. To produce
stressed and
unstressed
vowel sounds,
and voiceless
1. To interview classmates
and teachers for classroom
discussion
1. Students will give
two graded 3-minute
impromptu talks.
Course Learning
Outcomes
(CLO's)
Learning Activities Evaluation Methods
and final
consonants
2. To utilize
consonant
blends
3. To produce
rising/falling
intonation
4. To practice
syllable and
sentence stress
5. To practice
linking and
phrasing
6. To be able to
divide long
sentences and
questions into
breath groups
7. To apply
sentence stress
in dialogues
8. To recognize
and produce
reduced speech
in normal
2. To discuss specific
situations to increase
vocabulary
3. To practice impromptu
conversation skills through
role-playing
4. To utilize a dictionary to
apply correct pronunciation
5 . To use current software
/ online pronunciation
programs
2. Students will
prepare two or more
group presentations /
skits
3. Students will give
one brief presentation
(3-minutes) on a topic
of their choosing
4. Students will
regularly take
dictations.
5. Students’
performance in a
recorded format will
be evaluated.
6. Students will take a
midterm and a final.
Course Learning
Outcomes
(CLO's)
Learning Activities Evaluation Methods
American
speech
9. To increase
their aural/oral
intelligibility and
fluency
Visit https://app.teachinghow2s.com/library/institute-for-intensive-english to access
evidence-based-teaching techniques for this course.

---------------------

