week 4 (Units 1, 2 and 3)
4 Parametric Constraints
Fundamentals.
Fully constrained geometry, over-constraining
relations, constraint management, driven dime
5 Geometric Construction Tools. Dragging entities, auto dimensioning, fillets, p
sketches, offset cut features.
6 Parent/Child Relationships and the
BORN Technique
BORN technique, parent/child relationships, fe
suppression, design changes.
7 Part Drawings and 3D Model-Based Drawing sheet format, 2-D paper space, creat
Definition. views, view scale, repositioning views, center
Quiz week 8 (Units 4, 5, 6 and 7)
8 Datum Features and Auxiliary Views. Work features, auxiliary views, angled work p
work planes, projected geometry, solid feature
9 Symmetrical Features in Designs. Revolved designs, the sketch plane, creating
patterns, creating drawing templates, retrieve
10 Advanced 3-D Construction Tools. Thin wall design, lofted features, rounds and f
operation, pattern leader, rectangular pattern,
feature. Quiz week 11 (Units 8,9 and 10)
11,12 Assembly Modeling - Putting It All
Together.
Methodology, multiple parts, degrees of freed
constraints, exploded views, creating parts lis
prototype - 3D printer
13 ,14 Content Center and Basic Motion
Analysis.
Autodesk Content Center Libraries, Analyze I
Tool, The Drive Constraint tool to create Basic
Analysis, The 3D Grips Editing Approach. Qu
(Units 11 and 12)
15 Review Final. Review Project, and Test.
Class Policies
Attendance: Regular attendance is strongly encouraged. While not mandatory,
absences may negatively impact performance.
Participation: Active participation in class discussions, group work, and in-class
activities is expected.
Experiential Learning
Students must complete an experiential learning activity that connects course content to
career applications. This activity may be a content specific assignment or practical skill
that is applied within a course assignment. This assignment supports the general
education learning outcomes of scientific/critical thinking and quantitative reasoning; oral
and written communication; and information literacy/technological competency.
Academic Policies
See College Catalog for more information: http://onlinecatalog.ucc.edu/index.php
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ offers reasonable accommodations and/or
services to persons with disabilities. Any student who has a documented disability and
wishes to self-identify should contact the Director of Universal Accessibility Services and
Veterans Affairs at (908) 709-7164, or email accessibility@ucc.edu. Accommodations
are individualized and in accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1992. In order to receive accommodations,
students must be registered with Disability Support Services. Students should register
with the office as soon as possible. Accommodations are not official until the Faculty
Accommodations Alert Form(s) are issued from the student to his/her instructor(s).
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
The FERPA Statement can be found at https://www.ucc.edu/admissions/the-family-
education-rights-and-privacy-act/.
Equal Opportunity Statement
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ does not discriminate and prohibits
discrimination, as required by state and/or federal law, in all programs and activities,
including employment and access to its career and technical programs.
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ Mission Statement
Transforming Our Community. . . One Student at a Time
Suggested Teaching Methodologies
1. Lecture and display of sample industrial drawings.
2. Lecture and discuss techniques, processes and standard symbols.
3. Demonstrate use of standard measuring instruments.
4. Introduce the various American National Standards Institute publications and explain their
uses.
Mapping Course Learning Outcomes to Learning Activities and
Evaluation Methods
Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) Learning Activities Evaluation
Start up Autodesk 2D/3D software,
and be familiar with the user interface.
Create extruded solid models with
parametric dimensions. Understand
and use Inventor’s Part Browser.
Learn the user interface, menus
and toolbars, file management,
help options, browser, mouse
buttons. 2D Multiview drawing with
AutoCad.
Creating rough sketches, shape vs.
size concept, geometric
constraints, isometric view,
dynamic viewing, join extruding.
Create compute
and for homewo
Test.
Modify and update feature
dimensions. Perform basic design
changes. Create, display and modify
parametric relations. Display, add and
delete geometric constraints.
Create placed features, and offset
work planes.
Constructive Solid Geometry
Concepts. Binary tree, grid and
snap, base feature, model
dimensions, editing dimensions,
cut extrusions, placed features.
Create compute
and for homewo
Test.
Create 2-D orthographic views with
dimensions from 3-D models.
Determine the views necessary to
properly represent a part. Create
revolved and mirrored features, and
section views. Add borders and title
blocks to 2-D orthographic drawings.
Create auxiliary views using 2-D
orthographic views.
Drawing sheet format, 2-D paper
space, creating projected views,
view scale, repositioning views,
center and lines. Work features,
auxiliary views, angled work plane,
offset work planes, projected
geometry, solid features.
Create compute
and for homewo
Test.
Create assembly models and
exploded assemblies. Simulating
motion and assembly.
Methodology, multiple parts,
degrees of freedom and
constraints, exploded views,
creating parts lists. The Drive
Create compute
and for homewo
Test.
constraint tool to Create Basic
Motion Analysis, the 3D Grips
Editing approach, the associated
Simulation Video file
Use 3D printer to print prototypes as a
critical part of design process. Browse
the Internet and search for requested
topics.
Class discussion, Rapid prototype -
3D printer. Class discussio
Please note: all programs must integrate in one or more courses, discipline-specific course
learning outcomes that reflect the College learning outcomes of scientific/critical thinking and
quantitative reasoning, oral/written communication, and information literacy.
Visit https://app.teachinghow2s.com/library/science-technology-engineering-math-stem
to access evidence-based-teaching techniques for this course.

---------------------

