Week 1 Introduction, syllabus, books,
storage media, course
expectations labs
Reading: Chapter 1
Written Assn: What is information
systems, Case Study 1

---------------------

Week 2 Installing the Android Studio
SDK
Reading:Continue with Chapter 1
Voilla! Meet the Android Written Assn: Employment within
Information Systems

---------------------

Week 3 Simplify! The Android User
Interface
Research Paper: Explanation
Reading: Chapter 2
Written Assn: Review questions, Case
Study.

---------------------

Week 4 Engage! Android User Input,
Variables, and Operations
Test 1: Material covered in previous
classes
Reading: Corresponding chapter 3
Written Assn

---------------------

Week 5 Explore! Icons and Decision-
Making Controls
Reading chapter 4and Written Assn
Review Questions, Case Study

---------------------

Week 6 Investigate! Android Lists,
Arrays, and Web Browsers
Reading: Corresponding chapter 6
Written Assn Review Questions, Case
Study

---------------------

Week 7 Jam! Implementing Audio in
Android Apps
Test 2: Material covered in previous
classes
Readings and written assn.
Corresponding chapter, Review
Questions, Case Study

---------------------

Week 8 Reveal! Displaying Pictures
in a Gallery
Reading: Corresponding chapter 7
Written Assn Review Questions, Case
Study

---------------------

Week 9 Design! Using a DatePicker
on a Tablet
Research Paper: Outline due
Reading: Corresponding chapter 8
Written Assn Review Questions, Case
Study

---------------------

Week 10 Customize! Navigating with
Master/Detail Flow Activity
Test 3 – Material covered in previous
chapters
on a Tablet Reading: Corresponding chapter 9
Written Assn Review Questions, Case
Study

---------------------

Week 11 Move! Creating Animation Reading: Corresponding chapter 10
Written Assn: Review Questions, Case
Study

---------------------

Week 12 Discover! Persistent Data Reading: Corresponding chapter 11
Written Assn Review Questions, Case
Study

---------------------

Week 13 Finale! Publishing your
Android App
Reading: Corresponding chapter 12
Written Assn Review Questions, Case
Study

---------------------

Week 14 Review Test 4 – Material covered in previous

---------------------

Week 15 Final Examination
Additional Information
1. Assignments are due by the date posted on the Web calendar. All assignments
must be submitted in order to pass the course. Be sure to keep up with the
assignments.
2. If you are repeating this course, you must re-create all assignments. Be sure to
create new files. Work submitted from a previous semester will not be accepted.
3. Late work will be accepted; however, eleven points will be deducted for each day
the assignment is late. No work will be accepted more than three calendar days
after the due date. During the last full week of class, no work will be accepted late.
Be sure to check the calendar!
4. All tests must be taken. Each test may be taken only one time; so be sure you are
prepared to take the test. While taking each test, you must disable any and all pop-
up blockers that are enabled. You are on the honor system – no books, notes, or
any type of assistance is permitted while taking tests. You may take the test at any
time the test is available up to the closing date of the test. Tests cannot be made
up. A grade of zero will be given for any test. In order to receive a passing grade,
all tests, research paper, and final exam must be taken.
5. To appeal a grade you must send a mail message to the instructor through ANGEL
within five days of the posted grade. Overdue appeals will not be considered.
6. It is important for you to log on to the class site a few times a week. Be sure to
spend a minimum of eight hours a week completing the work for this class.
7. Any acts of classroom disruption (including that of online courses) that go beyond
the normal rights of students to question and discuss with instructors the
educational process relative to subject content will not be tolerated, in accordance
with the Academic Code of Conduct described in the Student Handbook. See the
Student Handbook for the policy on “Academic Integrity.” I strongly support the
policy regarding academic behavior and disruptive behavior.
Experiential Learning
Students must complete an experiential learning activity that connects course content to
career applications. This activity may be a content specific assignment or practical skill
that is applied within a course assignment. This assignment supports the general
education learning outcomes of scientific/critical thinking and quantitative reasoning; oral
and written communication; and information literacy/technological competency.
Academic Policies
See College Catalog for more information: http://onlinecatalog.ucc.edu/index.php
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ offers reasonable accommodations and/or
services to persons with disabilities. Any student who has a documented disability and
wishes to self-identify should contact the Director of Universal Accessibility Services and
Veterans Affairs at (908) 709-7164, or email accessibility@ucc.edu. Accommodations
are individualized and in accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1992. In order to receive accommodations,
students must be registered with Disability Support Services. Students should register
with the office as soon as possible. Accommodations are not official until the Faculty
Accommodations Alert Form(s) are issued from the student to his/her instructor(s).
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
The FERPA Statement can be found at https://www.ucc.edu/admissions/the-family-
education-rights-and-privacy-act/.
Equal Opportunity Statement
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ does not discriminate and prohibits
discrimination, as required by state and/or federal law, in all programs and activities,
including employment and access to its career and technical programs.
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ Mission Statement
Transforming Our Community. . . One Student at a Time
Suggested Teaching Methodologies
1. Lecture, group discussion, presentations, multimedia/technology, projects,
experiments, demonstrations, etc.
2. Indication of the percentages or emphasis given to teaching methodologies used
will assist faculty members in course preparation and implementation.
Mapping Course Learning Outcomes to Learning Activities and
Evaluation Methods
Program Outcomes Course Learning Outcomes Assessment of
Outcomes
Use software methods
and algorithmic thinking
to design technological
solutions for a variety of
different fields.
Build simple mobile
applications for Android devices
Implement icons and themes in
an application
Written: Exams and
programming assignments.
Verbal: Class discussion
and responses, group
discussion and responses.
Design, implement,
test, and evaluate
complete, logical
programs with
documentation that
meet defined
specifications.
Create control structures in an
application
Use lists and arrays in an
application
Use current techniques,
skills, and tools with
computer programming
languages to solve real-
world problems.
Implement audio, graphics and
animation in an application
Written: Exams and
programming assignments.
Verbal: Class discussion
and responses, group
discussion and responses
Please note: all programs must integrate in one or more courses, discipline-specific
course learning outcomes that reflect the College learning outcomes of scientific/critical
thinking and quantitative reasoning, oral/written communication, and information literacy.
Visit https://app.teachinghow2s.com/library/science-technology-engineering-math-stem
to access evidence-based-teaching techniques for this course.

---------------------

