Week 16 Finals Final Exam
Class Policies
Plagiarism and Academic Integrity: All your major essays must be submitted
through Unicheck/Turnitin on Canvas to check for plagiarism.
Submitting work containing any content generated by artificial intelligence (AI) such
as Chat GPT when not explicitly directed to do so by the instructor will be
considered an act of academic dishonesty.
The first instance of plagiarism or cheating of any kind will result in a warning and
you will be asked to redo the assignment. A second instance of academic
dishonesty will result in failure of the class and possible censure (including
suspension or dismissal from the College) from the Office of the Dean of Student
Services.
Experiential Learning
Students must complete an experiential learning activity that connects course content to
career applications. This activity may be a content specific assignment or practical skill
that is applied within a course assignment. This assignment supports the general
education learning outcomes of scientific/critical thinking and quantitative reasoning; oral
and written communication; and information literacy/technological competency.
Academic Policies
See College Catalog for more information: http://onlinecatalog.ucc.edu/index.php
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ offers reasonable accommodations and/or
services to persons with disabilities. Any student who has a documented disability and
wishes to self-identify should contact the Director of Universal Accessibility Services and
Veterans Affairs at (908) 709-7164, or email accessibility@ucc.edu. Accommodations
are individualized and in accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1992. In order to receive accommodations,
students must be registered with Disability Support Services. Students should register
with the office as soon as possible. Accommodations are not official until the Faculty
Accommodations Alert Form(s) are issued from the student to his/her instructor(s).
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
The FERPA Statement can be found at https://www.ucc.edu/admissions/the-family-
education-rights-and-privacy-act/.
Equal Opportunity Statement
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ does not discriminate and prohibits
discrimination, as required by state and/or federal law, in all programs and activities,
including employment and access to its career and technical programs.
UCNJ Union College of Union County, NJ Mission Statement
Transforming Our Community. . . One Student at a Time
Suggested Teaching Methodologies
1. Classroom discussions
2. Workshops
3. Peer Response
4. Conferences
5. Projects & presentations
6. Written Feedback
Mapping Course Learning Outcomes to Learning Activities and
Evaluation Methods
Course Learning Outcomes
(CLOs)
Learning Activities Evaluation Meth
Demonstrate skill in college-level
writing, reading, and critical
thinking
Class discussion and guided
practice: in-class writing
activities, drafting of essays, peer
review, teacher conferencing
Exercises, Formal
and informal writing
Demonstrate in writing the
standards of grammar and style
Class discussion and guided
practice: in-class writing
activities, drafting of essays, peer
review, teacher conferencing
Exercises, formal and
writing
Demonstrate an understanding of
writing as a process
Class discussion and guided
practice: in-class writing
activities, drafting of essays, peer
review, teacher conferencing
Formal
and informal essays
Investigate the ethical
dimensions of an academic or
cultural issue through an essay,
presentation, or discussion
Class discussion and guided
practice: in-class writing
activities, drafting of essays, peer
review, teacher conferencing
Formal and
informal essays
Produce a research paper that
demonstrates academic ethics
and applies information literacy;
Class discussion and guided
practice: in-class writing
activities, library visits, drafting of
essays, peer review, teacher
conferencing
Formal,
research-based essay
measures students’ ab
to locate, evaluate, and
information to demonst
a thesis
Please note: all programs must integrate in one or more courses, discipline-specific course
learning outcomes that reflect the College learning outcomes of scientific/critical thinking and
quantitative reasoning, oral/written communication, and information literacy.
Visit https://app.teachinghow2s.com/library/humanities to access evidence-based-
teaching techniques for this course.

---------------------

